So to fix the second issue
We can utilize third party package called
purifier made by me web studio.
You can go to this link or simply googling "laravel purifier"
And then choose this one
OK
Firstly let's install this package
we can copy this command and run in our terminal
after download finish we can see the usage
here
If you're using laravel version 5 to 5.4 you need
to register the provider in config app.php file.
But if you're using larvel version five point five or
above you don't need to add the provider because
it will be out auto discovered.
Now let's see the configuration to use
your own settings publish config.
And here we can simply copy this command
and run in our terminal.
And now if you go to config folder you'll find purifier.php
So here you can adjust what html attribute to be
allowed css allowed properties and much more
now to utilize this package
we can simply call clean helper or purifier facade and
followed by clean and then pass in the string we're going
to clean.
All right
before we applied this in our application
let's see how it work and tinker.
Here I'll
define a variable
and the value will contain paragraph
and also javascript alert.
now let's call clean and pass in the str variable.
As you can see
now the malicious code the javascript alert has
been cleaned. And you can also call like this way
and we get the same thing.
Now let me redefine the str variable.
But now I'll specify a style in the paragraph tag.
Now what happen if I call clean helper
the style attribute is still exists.
OK let me redefine the str variable one more time
and this time I want to define class attributes
let's say foo what happen if I call a clean helper.
The class attribute is gone this because in our config
In html allowed
it only contains p style so only style attribute that allowed inside
P tag.
Now let me change this to P style class
this mean style or classes attribute inside p tag are allowed.
Save the change.
restart the tinker
let me redefine the variable.
Here it is now if I clear the string
the class attribute is still in place. OK
I hope you got the idea.
now to clean the body of the question
we can do that in two different ways.
First we can clean the question body before it's saved into our database.
The second we can clean the question
body before it rendered to the page.
I think both ways are equally valid but I prefer the second way
for some reasons. If I follow the first way the
question that will be stored is not the original and
that could be missing parts because it contains the
tags that are not allowed as I defined in the config
file.
Meanwhile if I used the second way the original question is stored in the database although the malicious
code could also be stored but I can safely
display to the page by calling clean function.
And I also able to manage which tags that are allowed
and which are not allowed so that I can get the
best result that I want.
And the second way is also much simpler.
All I need to do is
find get body html attribute
All I need to do is call clean helper
and pass in the body
html
Now if I go to question page
now I will not have javascript alert or other malicious code.
Now just in case you prefer the first way then
you can simply define access of like this
public function set body attribute
and define an argument
and here you can simply call this attributes
body
clean value and that's it.
Every time you create or update the question the question body will be cleaned from malicious code.
OK I'll comment this accessor
because as I said I prefer the second way.
Alright
we have successfully fixed the two issues that we
talked in the beginning and I think our application
is much more secure..
And now we can open our answer model
and clean the body html attribute
And with that let's commit the changes to our git repo.